=======================
bt-audio-profile-toggle
=======================

This simple Python script allows to toggle between Bluetooth audio profiles
from CLI, and can be assigned to a keyboard shortcut.

Uses ``notify2`` for desktop notification, should work with any DBus-based
desktop notification implementation.
Notification icons are default available in Adwaita GNOME shell theme,
if missing they will just be omitted.

why
===
My Ubuntu does not support multi-profile Bluetooth connect or switching
automatically between HeadSet and A2DP audio profiles when application may
warrant this.
When in need to switch from listening music to conference call one has to
manually go to sound settings and change the profile - which is inconvenient.

install
=======

Easiest way I've found is to install dependencies into the user space::

    pip3 install -r requirements.txt

because the required dbus-python is probably already installed in the system
(it seems to be a dependency for many things like networkd).

Installation in virtualenv is also pissible, but requires libdbus headers
package and all the usual suspects for compiling Python C-extensions
(see ``bindep.txt``, list may be not complete, and only tested on my local
Ubuntu 18.04 desktop).

Place the ``bttoggle.py`` somewhere stable
(like ``~/.local/bin`` or ``/usr/local/bin``).

configure
=========

To have a keyboard shortcut, go to the
``GNOME Settings -> Devices -> Keyboard`` settings,
scroll down and add a new shortcut under ``Custom Shortcuts``
(I use ``<Super>-B``) pointing to python3 (system or virtualenv) and location
of the ``bttoggle.py`` script

TODO
====

#. Create a proper pip-installable Python package,
   with autogenerated executable script
#. Rewrite with ``dbus-next`` or ``Jeepney`` as DBus interface to avoid
   neccessity of building any C extensions (both of those are pure Python).
#. (More ambitious for my skills) rewrite in JavaScript and turn into proper
   GNOME Shell Extension

   - can take inspiration from
     `Nothing to say <https://github.com/wbolster/nothing-to-say>`_
     and
     `Sound Input & Output Device Chooser <https://github.com/kgshank/gse-sound-output-device-chooser>`_
     extensions I already use personally.
